What are you thinking about?
Nothing at all.
Why does something smell burnt?
My dish!
What happened?
Qian wants to borrow you as her husband.
What?
Soon as something's good,
people rush in to grab it!
Borrow. She meant to borrow him.
She needs him to scare off
an overbearing patron.
Borrowing will not do!
Zhao, why are you tugging at me?
If some woman asked
to borrow you, would you agree?
Well, if she were sweet enough,
I might consider it.
Say that again! I dare you!
What did she promise you?
How much did you sell me for?
As if I would sell you for a few taels.
Yes, yes.
A few taels would be far too cheap.
Thirty taels.
-What?
-Thirty taels?
To be honest, Changyu truly means well.
Yan Zheng, why not lend a hand?
Think of it as earning merit.
-But--
-No!
No? No what?
If someone offered a few taels,
I'd sell you on the spot!
You…
Changning, come. Let's not listen to them.
I'm not worth as much as a pig?
And how much do you think you are worth?
Why not ask someone else?
That Lord Li, for example.
He has already left Lin'an.
Even if he were here,
I would not go to him.
Why seek help from an outsider
when my husband stands before me?
Just help Qian out.
Only one day.
If Yixiang Restaurant collapses,
our business will suffer too.
That rice merchant Qi
is like a medicinal plaster.
Clings tight and will not come off.
Does no real harm,
but makes one miserable.
Rice merchant Qi?
Has he been close
with anyone of note recently?
A rice merchant from the capital,
surnamed Qi.
One day?
Only one.
ADAPTED FROM THE NOVEL ZHU YU
BY TUAN ZI LAI XI ON JJWXC.NET
GUESTS FROM ACROSS THE REALM
-This way.
-Yan Zheng.
Dressed like that, forget shopkeeper.
You could pass for a marquis!
Good. This way.
Today we rely on you.
Do not worry.
Changyu said you are
her dearest friend in Lin'an.
If she wishes to help you,
I will not refuse.
This way.
‎TIANZI ROOM
Mr. Qi!
Ms. Yu, all better now?
Mr. Qi, this is my husband, Yan Zheng.
He has been away on business
and just returned today.
I brought him here to thank you
for your support of our establishment.
Mr. Qi.
An honor.
So you are Yu Qianqian's husband.
Indeed.
Yan Zheng, entertain Mr. Qi well.
I'll go get some more wine and dishes.
Mr. Qi.
Please.
When Master throws his cup,
we seize him.
I heard you were from the capital.
What draws you to a small town like Lin'an
to deal in grain?
And you, Mr. Yan, are not a native either.
Why open a restaurant here?
My wife has not attended you properly.
Please forgive us.
If there is business to be done,
please come to me directly.
And what scale of trade
can you manage, Mr. Yan?
For instance,
200,000 dan of grain.
Forgive me.
Our restaurant is doing roaring business.
It's only natural that resentful rivals
would scheme against us
in the shadows.
No wonder Yu Qianqian
declined my request
to rent out the restaurant.
The offer wasn't generous enough.
Very well.
We shall speak another day.
Where is he?
-Gone.
-Gone?
He gave up that easily?
Yan Zheng, those 30 taels were well spent!
What troubles you, Master?
You would never guess.
I just met a dead man walking.
That woman called him her husband.
You mean…
Marquis Wu'an, Xie Zheng.
Xie Zheng?
Was he not dead?
If Marquis Wu'an still lives,
Prince Changxin's plan
will not unfold so easily.
My dear father
intended to start his game by using
bandits to rob the military grain,
drive out refugees, spread panic,
then he could reap the benefits.
But now,
Marquis Wu'an lives.
He even knows we purchased
200,000 dan of grain.
Clearly, he was well prepared.
Who will win remains uncertain.
This game grows more interesting
by the moment.
Master, you deliberately leaked word,
drawing him to investigate
the Jinzhou massacre 16 years ago.
You knew Wei Yan
would never reopen the case.
You meant to borrow Wei Yan's hand
to eliminate Xie Zheng,
the threat of yours.
Yet he lives.
Shall we quietly inform Wei Yan
of his whereabouts
and borrow another blade?
No.
I drove them into open conflict
to strip him of his support.
Marquis Wu'an has never been our enemy.
Now that the rift between uncle
and nephew is beyond repair,
the Marquis is lost and adrift
in such a village.
This is the moment to win him over.
Take my Crown Prince seal.
Draw him out under my former title
of the Crown Prince.
Yes.
And Shopkeeper Yu Qianqian?
Her?
Keep her under watch.
YIXIANG RESTAURANT
This way, ladies.
Inside, please.
Honored guests, this way.
Mrs. Fan.
Changyu!
Come here!
Look at this place.
So lively.
It's all thanks to you!
What do I have to do with it?
Ever since your husband
paid us that visit,
that rice merchant Qi
has not dared trouble me again.
I can finally run my business in peace.
This bustle?
You deserve the credit.
Come with me.
I wonder what Chef Li is making
for Lunar New Year's Eve.
What are you cooking tonight?
Cabbage and tofu.
-And stir-fried pork.
-Go on.
Greetings, Mother. Mrs. Fan.
Sit.
What is Changning doing at home?
I miss her!
After Lunar New Year's Eve,
why not come play at our house?
Mother, may I?
Very well.
But only this time.
Changning said she would show me
your family heirloom.
Family heirloom…
She means the butcher knife.
Perhaps that is not necessary.
That is marvelous!
An actual butcher knife!
Mrs. Fan and I have matters to discuss.
Go study.
Come on.
Qian,
are you not a bit strict with Bao'er?
Not at all.
I just want him to succeed.
Changyu, tomorrow is Lunar New Year's Eve.
You must be swamped.
Let me wish you smooth fortunes
in the year ahead.
I am not young anymore.
Why give me the red packet?
We stay forever young!
Come. Let's drink.
Drinking at noon?
Women drink by mood, not by time.
If not now, when?
AUSPICIOUS ABUNDANCE
-Cheers!
Qian,
the last time I felt this carefree
was the day I married Yan Zheng.
Changyu,
you have been wed some time now.
Tell me honestly. Are you satisfied
with your husband?
He is not all show
and no substance, is he?
What nonsense.
Yan Zheng is solid gold.
Pure and true.
That impressive?
Then I shall go trash
that gossiping Kang right now!
She swore you two
haven't even shared a bed!
You mean consummated?
What else?
That foul mouth of hers.
Do not worry. I can afford
the fine if I beat her up.
Qian.
To be fair,
she was not entirely wrong.
Which part?
One day,
Mrs. Zhao locked the two of us in a room.
It seemed he wanted to kiss me.
You ate candied tangerine peel?
I can smell it on you.
Right now, do you want some?
And?
And…
We ended up fighting.
So you two are serious.
Deep down,
I know…
he'll leave one day.
I have asked him more than once,
in roundabout ways.
He has never changed his answer.
Your husband
seems to build
for something bigger than here.
Do not worry.
If he insists on leaving,
then before he does, have his child.
Think about it.
If the child inherits his looks,
that is a blessing.
I can't do that.
That sounds shameless.
If you want the cub,
you must first catch the wolf.
No.
If you want the cub,
you must first feed the wolf.
Relax.
Leave it to me.
XIGU ALLEY
I, Zhao Xun of Lin'an Grain,
come for a visit.
It is bitterly cold.
Will Your Lordship not invite me inside?
Marquis.
Marquis?
HAVE A FULL MEAL
How did you recognize me?
I once conducted business
in Jizhou and Yanzhou.
I was fortunate enough
to witness your presence.
So,
what brings you here?
The Xie family's loyalty
is known throughout the realm.
Yet Heaven shows little mercy.
The loyal fall to treachery
time and again.
I cannot help but feel injustice
on your behalf.
Speak plainly.
Were you not hunted by Wei Yan
for reopening the Jinzhou massacre
of 16 years ago?
Who are you?
TREASURE SEAL OF CHENGDE
Sixteen years ago,
when fire consumed the Eastern Palace,
I was among the few who survived.
Wei Yan holds the court in his grip,
propping up a puppet emperor.
We are those
who seek to set the realm right.
And what proof do you offer?
Sixteen years ago,
Crown Prince Chengde and your father
both fell in Jinzhou.
Soon after, the emperor abdicated.
Then came the fire.
Each thread points toward Wei Yan.
Your father and the Crown Prince
died in battle,
their bodies hung by the Northern Jue
on the city walls for days.
Do you not wish to avenge that blood?
The moment you resumed
the investigation of Jinzhou,
assassins pursued you,
driving you into exile.
Is that not proof?
It is not enough.
We have learned
Wei Yan dispatched his assassins
across one capital and 17 prefectures,
killing a dozen men.
All were former retainers
who once served him
and later withdrew from his service.
What does the Fan family possess
that would warrant the Wei clan's
Xuan Tie death warriors?
It's the Chancellor.
He ordered me to retrieve a letter.
So Fan Erniu once served Wei Yan.
That explains the relentless pursuit.
Marquis, Wei Yan's power
overshadows the court.
He seeks to eclipse the throne.
If you wish to move a man like that,
can you truly do it alone?
And why should I trust you?
Then tell me.
What would make you believe me?
Offer me a token first.
A token?
Two hundred thousand dan of grain.
Deal?
It seems he truly knows
about our grain purchases
in Jizhou and Chongzhou.
We acquired it
through layers of merchants.
At least a hundred hands
touched that grain.
How could he know the number so precisely?
That is precisely what I would ask you.
Master, forgive me. I failed you.
Still, the fact that he named
a price is encouraging.
This is business.
Once a price is spoken,
terms can be shaped.
Two hundred thousand dan…
Master,
we have nearly emptied the granaries
of Chongzhou and Jizhou these past months.
No one said we must
deliver it all at once.
Father has never truly valued me.
Even the title of heir
is meant for Sui Yuanqing.
But if Marquis Wu'an stands with us,
the odds will shift in our favor.
What if Marquis Wu'an
doesn't follow our plan,
takes the grain, then turns against us?
Turns against us?
Where could he possibly go?
Back into Wei Yan's service?
If he truly aids me,
let alone 200,000 dan of grain,
the four prefectures of the northwest
will be my reward to him.
Understood.
I will see it done.
Wei Yan…
Soon, the wolf you raised
will bare its teeth at you.
Chancellor.
While investigating Li Xing's contacts
with the rebel faction,
we uncovered something else.
Marquis Wu'an's inquiry
into the Jinzhou case 16 years ago
started on the leaks
from Prince Changxin's household.
They removed Xie Zheng
so that Prince Changxin would have
one less greatest obstacle at the front.
The Sui clan
is undermining my plans.
There is another matter.
Li Xing has summoned Li Huai'an
back to the capital.
The Grand Princess has returned as well.
That old fox likely intends
to secure a marriage,
so he hastily recalled
his eldest grandson.
Leave it.
Send word to He Jingyuan at once.
Tell him to hold Lucheng at all costs.
That will be the field of reckoning.
LUNAR NEW YEAR'S EVE
Happy Lunar New Year!
Come, everyone, eat!
Coming!
Mrs. Wang, Happy Lunar New Year!
FORTUNE
Look at me!
-Happy Lunar New Year!
-Happy Lunar New Year, Uncle!
Happy Lunar New Year!
SPRING BREEZE TOFU SHOP
That's it. Keep going.
A horizontal stroke.
Now vertical.
Vertical.
Horizontal, turn, sweep left, sweep right.
Changyu, Zheng is teaching me to write!
Good girl.
Can you write couplets?
Mother used to write ours every year.
Zheng, can you write couplets?
Bring the paper.
All right.
Too much ink.
Then we will write a few extra.
One for Mr. and Mrs. Zhao.
And paste them on every doorframe.
More red, more joy.
Very well.
Did I… Did I bump you?
It is nothing. Just too much ink.
‎BE KIND, DO GOOD
This is beautiful.
Such a pity.
It is no matter.
We will hang them on our room door.
Ice… something.
Spring… something.
Snow… something. Grass… something.
"Ice melts, the springs pulse.
Snow clears, young grass rises."
When my mother wrote
Spring Festival couplets,
she never liked writing
the same old blessings either.
You prefer this?
You paint as well?
A little.
That is more than enough.
You could make good money
selling your art.
I don't create against my will.
I want to write too!
Then write the horizontal scroll.
Come, Ning, write it.
What shall we write?
Let's write this.
CERTAINLY RICH
How is that?
It is like
adding a dog's tail to a sable coat.
That means it is very good, yes?
Perfectly fitting.
It's only because I wrote it so well!
I'm amazing!
Oh! We forgot the falcon.
Falcon, be good.
We celebrate Lunar New Year together!
Press its claw here.
Now our family is complete.
Look.
Zhao.
Lower it a little.
All right. Good!
Don't move! That's good.
-All right.
-Let's look at Changyu's house.
Perfect!
Honey.
How is the writing?
Beautiful.
-I have never seen writing so fine.
-Her husband wrote these, right?
-He did.
-You, who cannot read, can tell?
I may not read,
but I know worth when I see it.
Look at those strokes. Square and steady.
That hand is worth silver!
Mr. and Mrs. Zhao,
these couplets are splendid!
Who wrote them?
Changyu's husband did.
By the way…
Mr. Fan!
Changyu!
Your husband's couplets are excellent!
Better than the ones Song Yan
used to write.
See?
Our Changyu's got an eye for people.
Write one for me too, will you?
-Yes, yes, do ours as well.
-Write for all of us.
Aunties, forgive us,
but we've run out of red paper.
That's no matter.
We've never been short
of red paper at home.
We've got some at home too.
-So do we.
-We do too.
All right.
Bring it over.
All right!
Let's go fetch the red paper.
Thank you.
We'll be right back!
Come on.
You don't have to agree
if you don't feel like it.
Don't do it because of me.
I want to.
Just now, you said
you wouldn't create against your will.
-And now it suits you?
-Stop it.
Grind the ink.
Changyu.
Madam Zhuang.
I made some rice candy at home
for little Ning to snack on.
-Oh…
-Take it.
We heard your husband's
writing spring couplets.
Ours aren't done yet,
so we shamelessly followed along.
Didn't bring much.
Just some freshly pressed tofu
for you to try.
Aunties,
have a seat first.
All right, all right.
-Thank you.
-Here's the red paper.
Good, thank you.
"Peace within the home,
calm on every side."
-Beautiful handwriting.
-All right.
Finished.
Nicely written.
"Lanterns at every door,
blessings for the new year.
Oxen shoulder the spring,
plowing green fields."
It means when spring comes,
the harvest will be rich,
and the family will live in peace.
That's beautifully written.
"When storms darken the sky,
the rooster still crows.
THE BOOK OF SONGS: AIRS OF ZHENG
Having seen the graceful one,
how could I not rejoice?"
These lines speak
of storm and turmoil, rain pouring,
the world unsettled.
Yet in the midst of all that confusion,
you lift your eyes,
and suddenly, there she is.
Like clouds parting,
a shaft of light falls over you.
Warm. Bright.
And joy rises from somewhere inside.
When he recited it before,
I only thought it sounded nice.
I never understood why it was good.
Until just now.
He turned and looked at me.
In that moment,
the courtyard went quiet.
Even the snow seemed to fall softer.
The wind stopped biting.
It felt like the winter sun,
not too strong, not too weak,
just right,
resting squarely on me.
When someone is truly happy,
their heart makes a sound.
Like sitting by the stove,
hearing the firewood crackle.
Soft, scattered pops. Small but warm.
-Such beautiful writing.
-Those characters are elegant.
Happy Lunar New Year!
Your hand must be sore.
It's nothing.
Stubborn.
You want couplets too?
In the past,
my eldest grandson, Kang Dan,
wrote the couplets.
Then he got into trouble
and was taken away for labor duty.
After that,
Song Yan helped us.
Well, Kang Dan's 18 this year.
Timid. A bit slow.
I only hope my younger one, Kang Hu,
grows up sharper than his brother.
In the end,
what does a person live for,
if not a little hope?
Maybe next year, or the year after,
maybe things will turn around.
Sit.
What would you like written?
Just… no more fighting.
Leave my family a bloodline
to carry on.
Let my two grandsons,
who have no parents to protect them,
grow up safe and sound.
All right.
POISE AND REFINEMENT
CASTING OFF SPLENDOR
I pay my respects, Mother.
You wished to see me.
May I ask why?
Lunar New Year's Eve
is a time for family reunion.
Must I have a formal reason
to see my daughter?
That was not my intent.
I pray the new year brings Mother
peace, health, and lasting fortune.
You and Marquis Wu'an were betrothed
before you were born.
When he was alive, he was a rising star.
Victorious in battle,
admired across the realm.
Such a man would have been an ideal match.
Yet you insisted you saw him
only as a brother
and would not take him as consort.
And now? An unfinished game of chess
has unsettled your heart.
Mother, what are you implying?
Since returning to the palace,
you have repeatedly claimed illness
to avoid meeting Li Huai'an.
I have already arranged
for you to attend
the Lantern Festival together.
Mother!
The Gongsuns have never sat
on the Grand Council.
That is imperial decree.
It cannot be defied.
You are the Grand Princess.
You must not let a private attachment
undermine the greater design
of the throne.
I am not a piece on your board.
I will not be arranged
for the sake of palace calculations!
In your eyes,
there is only family prestige
and imperial protocol.
Have you ever once asked
what brings me happiness or sorrow?
From this day forward,
you are not to see anyone
from the Gongsun household again.
Put an end to this at once.
If there is nothing further,
I shall take my leave.
Shu!
Your Highness, where are you going?
To hang myself.
Care to join me, Nanny?
Tender words may weigh upon the heart,
yet the bird still longs to soar.
Let's eat!
Go on.
-Smells incredible!
-Smells good.
Thank you.
Here.
-So good.
-Delicious.
-Have more.
-So good.
Coming.
-Happy Lunar New Year!
-Another cup.
-Fill it!
-Go on, fill it.
-I'll have some too.
-Drink!
-No. You're still recovering.
It's just light rice wine.
Tea for you.
The doctor said no alcohol
until you're fully healed.
I want some too!
You don't drink either.
Come. Tea with your brother-in-law.
-Eat well. Stay safe!
-Eat well. Stay safe.
Drink up!
Come.
Yan Zheng.
Maybe we could--
Fireworks!
-Look!
-Wow!
Let's go see!
-Come on.
-Fireworks!
Slow down, Ning.
What were you about to say?
I didn't hear you.
I said I want more wine.
-Come on. Upstairs.
-We'll see better from there.
So beautiful!
-It is good wine.
-Don't drink too much.
I'm perfectly fine.
This hardly counts as wine.
Have some tea.
It sobers you up.
You think I can't handle it?
Father could down a whole jar of liquor.
I could manage half.
This doesn't even make me dizzy.
Come. Bottoms up.
Come on.
You're drunk.
Not in the slightest.
Happy Lunar New Year.
If you won't feed the wolf,
you won't catch the cub…
What cub?
FESTIVE LANTERNS
NO ANIMALS WERE HARMED
IN THE MAKING OF THIS EPISODE
Subtitle translation by: Jiaxin Wang